ADR: sequence digest algorithm to be GA4GH digest (#31)
ga4gh/seqcol-spec: docs/decision_record.md

[TOC]

## 2022-05-11 - Sequence identifier specification

### Decision

> The GA4GH identifier will be used as our default sequence identifier instead of MD5. Other identifiers can be provided in a separate array and should not be part of the collection checksum calculation.

Reviewer: I think we should specify where we intend to use the identifiers.  Something along the line of
```suggestion
The GA4GH identifier will be used as our default sequence identifier instead of MD5. Other identifiers can be provided in a separate array and should not be part of the collection checksum calculation.
It will be used to digest:

- the sequences that are stored in the `sequences` array
- the canonical representation of arrays of level 2
- the canonical representation of the sequence collection of level 1
```

### Rationale 

> The GA4GH digest was created as part of the [Variation Representation Specification standard](https://vrs.ga4gh.org/en/stable/impl-guide/computed_identifiers.html). This document included a way of creating identifiers to be used with sequences e.g. ACGT results in the identifier `ga4gh:SQ.aKF498dAxcJAqme6QYQ7EZ07-fiw8Kw2`. The scheme uses the [`sha512t24u` function](https://journals.plos.org/plosone/article?id=10.1371/journal.pone.0239883) to create a base64 URL-safe representation of a sha512 digest. Adopting this standard ensures sequence collections remains inline with newer standards within the GA4GH ecosystem.

Reviewer: I would clarify the example like this:
```suggestion
The GA4GH digest was created as part of the [Variation Representation Specification standard](https://vrs.ga4gh.org/en/stable/impl-guide/computed_identifiers.html). This document included a way of creating identifiers to be used with sequences e.g. ACGT is digested as `aKF498dAxcJAqme6QYQ7EZ07-fiw8Kw2` and result in the identifier `ga4gh:SQ.aKF498dAxcJAqme6QYQ7EZ07-fiw8Kw2` once prefixed. The scheme uses the [`sha512t24u` function](https://journals.plos.org/plosone/article?id=10.1371/journal.pone.0239883) to create a base64 URL-safe representation of a sha512 digest. Adopting this standard ensures sequence collections remains inline with newer standards within the GA4GH ecosystem.
```

Reviewer 2: @andrewyatz I think we should make this ADR only about algorithm, and not about identifier construction at all, which is handled in #37

Reviewer 3: @nsheff I agree! We should in that case make sure that we use the term `digest` and not `identifier` everywhere.

> GA4GH identifiers were created as part of the [Variation Representation Specification standard](https://vrs.ga4gh.org/en/stable/impl-guide/computed_identifiers.html), which included a way of creating identifiers to be used with sequences e.g. ACGT results in the identifier `ga4gh:SQ.aKF498dAxcJAqme6QYQ7EZ07-fiw8Kw2`. The scheme uses the [`sha512t24u` function](https://journals.plos.org/plosone/article?id=10.1371/journal.pone.0239883) to create a base64 URL-safe representation of a sha512 digest. Adopting GA4GH identifiers ensures sequence collections remains inline with newer standards within the GA4GH ecosystem.

Reviewer: I don't think we should talk about the prefix `ga4gh:SQ` in this ADR. First, I don't think we want to use `SQ` since it is reserved for sequences and second it's not clear that the prefix is part of all the digest that Sequence Collection uses. It should only be used for the level identifier 0.
